Item(by='photonic34', descendants=None, kids=[24664758, 24665122, 24664614, 24664511], score=None, time=1601656969, title=None, item_type='comment', url=None, parent=24663686, text='&gt; To give a preview of why doing this might devolve into an “engineering problem”, let’s consider a loose (but, in the end, not quite so loose) analogy. Imagine you’ve got molecules of gas in a room, all bouncing around and colliding with each other. Now imagine there’s a special molecule—or even a tiny speck of dust or a virus particle—somewhere in the room. Normally the special molecule will be buffeted by the molecules in the air, and will move in some kind of random walk, gradually diffusing across the room. But imagine that the special molecule somehow knows enough about the motion of the air molecules that it can compute exactly where to go to avoid being buffeted. Then that special molecule can travel much faster than diffusion—and effectively make a beeline from one side of the room to the other.\nOf course this requires more knowledge and more computation than we currently imagine something like a molecule can muster (though it’s not clear this is true when we start thinking about explicitly constructing molecule-scale computers). But the point is that the limit on the speed of the molecule is less a question of what’s physically possible, and more a question of what’s “engineerable”.<p>This is posed as a computational resource problem, but it strikes me as an information problem.<p>How do you know where the aggressor molecules are and what their paths (i.e. future states) are?<p>Perhaps it’s possible to know the very local conditions and dodge an imminent collision, but does that generalize to arbitrarily long paths? Can I make it to the other end of the room, dodging only the molecules right in front of me? Or can I set out on a path from the beginning that has no solution in the end because it results in an unsolvable state?<p>And if the only way to know is to know the full state of the molecules that may affect my journey, beginning to end, doesn’t their state have to be known at the outset of the journey? If the information about their state itself has a speed limit, and if their state is not fully observable or fully deterministic, what sort of computation can defeat that?')