Item(by='fallingfrog', descendants=None, kids=[24672453], score=None, time=1601730832, title=None, item_type='comment', url=None, parent=24670994, text='It’s a peculiar mishmash of ideas, many of them self contradictory.  For instance, in the first section he calls for a revolution against technology, but then he spends several pages attacking “leftists” for their need to form organizations to feel powerful.  One wonders where he expects a revolution to come from without organizations.  Perhaps a completely spontaneous uprising of lone wolf mail bombers?<p>He also seems to conflate the alienating effects of capitalism with “technology”.  If you watch tv shows from the 90’s they often used the word technology in that way- they would conflate scientific research with the tangible products that were purchased on store shelves and also with the kinds of social structures present in a large corporation or factory and call it all “technology”.  But the strange move that Kaczyinski makes is to propose that people are too connected together and not isolated enough, as if being connected with other people and being a cog in some large corporate machine was necessarily the same thing.  In fact as David Graeber and others have pointed out, it’s the opposite- every person is born in a social context and before they can be treated as a unit of labor to be bought and sold they must be removed from that context and isolated from their natural social bonds.  That’s why we have such a dramatic separation between home and work life.  Part of the reason is specialization- you are going to end up working among strangers since the people in your family and your neighbors are not going to have the same skill set as you.  The irony is that the breakdown of natural social bonds that the separation between home and work life entails is why capitalism was called by Karl Marx the universal solvent of social relations- and that same lack of genuine social relations is what creates psychotic reactions such as what you see in Kaczyinski.<p>Both left wing activists and right wing activists are responding on some level to the same social alienation, but left wingers respond by trying to build their own organizations, whereas right wingers usually respond by explaining their feelings with conspiracy theories.  That’s why left wing activists have large marches and strikes and things like that whereas right wingers engage in lone wolf terrorism.')