Item(by='la6471', descendants=None, kids=[24704529], score=None, time=1602033645, title=None, item_type='comment', url=None, parent=24704260, text='So to your first point you need to understand I am not taking about “needing” to outsource&#x2F;offshoring  to provide UBI to citizens. No,  “offShoring” is “needed” by companies to be more efficient and profitable. It is a business decision. That is inevitable if US companies wants to stay competitive in the global market. If not outsourcing or offshoring there WILL be automation as time goes on and many skills will become older or stale. This is also inevitable. If you deny these trends you are living under a rock really. Now in your answer I do sense some frustrations around demographic changes , which is also real , but again that kind of thinking leads to stereotyping biases and sometimes making the wrong judgement, which I think we can all do without and definitely the United States constitution does not prescribe classes of citizens based on ancestry. But to all the other issues UBI is the answer not stopping the profitability of companies.<p>Secondly the fact is most of the developed countries run on successful immigration policies. Countries like Japan which did not encourage immigration until recently had a stagnating economy for a very long time. Only recently they are loosening up immigration to help boost the economy. In fact the reason USA is a great place to come and work for many SKILLED immigrants is that immigrants has contributed greatly in the last three decades and helpers US companies to dominate in the global competition and increase their profit to stellar levels. Look at any of the global hi tech companies from IBM to Microsoft and you will see immigrants holding not only back office roles but also holding all kinds of positions from middle managers to being CEOs. Do you think these companies could have been so successful without the contribution of the immigrant communities? These companies success are America’s recent success and let us not deny this fact or take steps that will kill this glorious fountain of prosperity and innovation.')