Item(by='kls', descendants=None, kids=[24724812], score=None, time=1602187569, title=None, item_type='comment', url=None, parent=24721939, text='I don&#x27;t understand why society is so hell bent on punishing people for thought crimes. To the extent that they make trouble for corporations, in effect forcing their hand, into the position of separating that person from their livelihood. Society is a social contract and the baseline of that contract is we engage with people where we align and we disengage where we do not. Specifically in a capitalist society one of those strong alignments tends to be on the area of productivity. So alienating an individual from one of the areas that they actually align will tend to push them further into the fringe and worse yet they may become productive in that fringe.<p>My issue is belief systems like the one this person possesses tend to flow from a few underlining fountains and they are fear, a feeling of marginalization, true mental illness or a traumatic experience and as a society as a whole, we should use reason to get to the underlining issue and fix it not cast them out and further limit our ability to actually remove the fountains that these ideas come from. It is worth noting again, I am not advocation for Citi to not have the right to dissociate nor am I advocating for the government to step in. Rather trying to highlight this new culture we are forming of &quot;I don&#x27;t want to hear you and if I do I want you punished&quot;  is directly related to the fact that both sides are radicalizing.<p>Further on a similar but tangential note, but directly a product of this effect, academia used to be a safe haven for diversity of thought, imagine if in their time, Nash or Turing (to a certain extent it was on Turing) would have faced the same academia establishment of present day but applied their societies contract onto their thought. We would certainly lost valuable and productive work that they did. Modern Academia still preaches the dogma of diversity of thought and ideas that was a hallmark of being the torch bearer of free thought of academia since the enlightenment. Now it has transformed into the arbitrator and filter of what is enlightened thought. My only observation is that, where we are heading is a dangerous path. I don&#x27;t know each personas political leanings on this site but it worth noting no matter which side, almost half the population disagrees with you. It may not feel that way due to ones local social climate as well as ones choice of online engagement but that is the reality. It is also worth noting that QAnon is a fringe element and while almost certainly right wing do not represent the majority of the right wing the same can be said for Antifa or NAMBLA not being representative of the left. I bring this up because this is the core of my problem here, it is trickling into everything.<p>At this point I feel a need to note, that while the above paragraph will certainly cast me as a right winger, I contend that I am not. I consider myself to be a liberal in the classical enlightenment sense. I hold views across the spectrum and most of them would be considered left of center. I generally don&#x27;t get into my political views but I think it is important in these times to specifically spell it out, as a great many immediately dismiss an argument if they mentally tag it as dogma from the other side.')