Item(by='poletopole', descendants=None, kids=None, score=None, time=1602265910, title=None, item_type='comment', url=None, parent=24729994, text='Like k0t0n0 said but it’s probably more like a trillion dollar question. Like yourself, I worked at a company for seven years before I left and it was a complete exercise in what not to do. As a result I learned many things, but what I concluded was that code grows in complexity exponentially proportional to its network and I&#x2F;O effects. The hard pill to swallow is that in imo at least, is that we need the freedom to have multiplexed protocol diversity in the same vein as how we use Docker as an industry not ruled and dictated by the IETF or tech giants. The way the industry uses HTTP today for example is like trying to write Shakespeare with a choice of only 5 words. I won’t go into the details of what I call the “L8” protocol level that would be the answer to this trillion dollar question because (even after 5 years of contemplation) I really am not 100% sure; I’m just saying that it’s needed. Lastly, we need a modern way of representing, encoding, encrypting, and transmitting data with zero trust but also be able to measure its Shannon entropy and semantic consistency in a distributed network topology. This is because if we want a truly free and open semantic web not ruled by Google and SEO bad apples, we need to develop a means to understand data and network topology in an ambient isomorphic way. Here, the answers may lie in homology, representation theory, number theory, etc for all I know but no single person will solve this challenge that we really can’t put into words. Lastly, the solution will need to use existing industry standards such as HTTP&#x2F;TCP&#x2F;IP, XML&#x2F;JSON, WASM, MIME, UTF-8 etc but also will need something like IPFS or Dat where they are used in a way that doesn’t require the whole internet to change—most P2P protocols don’t get that fact of life. The sad part is no one is talking about this elephant in the room because it’s hard to put into words except other than Alan Kay’s perhaps.')