Item(by='jillesvangurp', descendants=None, kids=None, score=None, time=1603348647, title=None, item_type='comment', url=None, parent=24851981, text='That big industry that you talk about needs to actually switch to clean energy sources as well. It needs to happen for environmental reasons. But the reasons it is actually happening are more related to cost. There are a few aluminium and steel plants coming online running on hydrogen recently. With clean sources for hydrogen coming online as well, that puts us on a track to cleaning up energy in heavy industries. Right now natural gas is still cheaper but that may not last that long as prices for wind and solar continue to trend down and as there are ongoing improvements in cost of producing hydrogen. Geothermal could be part of the solution for that. But the price has to be right and I have a hunch that there are some challenges there long term.<p>With geothermal the innovation is not necessarily in building huge plants in geologically unstable areas, which in other places indeed requires drilling quite deep, but in using heat pumps to work with small temperature differences you get by digging only a few tens to hundreds meters deep. This is currently quite popular in northern Europe as a way of cheaply heating&#x2F;cooling houses and reducing cost relative to burning natural gas. The main cost is putting pipes in the ground.<p>In any case, the main challenge with any energy generation project is cost and amortizing that over its lifetime. There are a few things on the market that have come down in price by orders of magnitude and are on track for more improvements in the next decades. This puts any predictions about cost and profitability at risk. In the case of coal, people came out on the wrong side of the equation and a lot of plants are being shut down ahead of their scheduled end of life. IMHO the same will happen to gas plants in the next decades. That makes investments in large scale geothermal very risky. Which is perhaps why there is far less of it than you would expect given that we&#x27;ve known how to build such plants for a very long time.<p>The combination of cheap storage and low cost solar panels or super efficient 10-20 MW wind mills is becoming quite hard to compete with and you see this stuff popping up in formerly very fossil fuel friendly places because it makes sense right now from a cost perspective. Even Iceland is investing in offshore wind.')