Item(by='nxc18', descendants=None, kids=None, score=None, time=1603555659, title=None, item_type='comment', url=None, parent=24879752, text='I think there’s an assumption that if you’re using your phone regularly you’re never taking the time to have human experiences. For all but perhaps the most avoidant, I don’t think that happens in practice.<p>I walk alone for 1-3 hours a day. Usually I wear headphones and listen to podcasts or the economist audio - I have learned a lot about the world this way. You could argue it is just entertainment, but I suppose my old CS lectures were just entertainment, too. Having audio content helps make the walks more bearable, and those walks have helped me lose over 100 lbs of unwanted body fat.<p>Sometimes I take the headphones out to enjoy the sights and sounds. Sometimes I pause and enjoy the views for a while. If I see someone I want to talk to, I stop, take the headphones out, and talk. There’s no binary choice and I find that by sparing me actual reading time, this practice gives me more time to spend on things I care about. I do enjoy the nature exposure, but I don’t need 3 hours a day of focus on it - it really just doesn’t change much day to day or year to year.<p>I wish living in a perfectly smooth chrome existence was an option, but it isn’t. My phone and the internet fail often enough that I still regularly need to call a real human and talk. The maps are wonderful, but they still require a degree of interpretation, like when a rail line is closed and the shuttle replacement isn’t listed. Just the other day I had to bother an airport employee to figure out where that shuttle pick up was. Having had that experience I don’t think it makes me better.<p>I have empathy for unnecessarily difficult situations, that doesn’t make me want to maximize the existence of those. It motivates me to build better software, do better work, and contribute more to public efforts to make the world a better place for humans.<p>Again, there’s no binary choice, people should use every tool at their disposal to maximize their happiness. I’ve got a perfectly good phone, but I walked the streets of a new city for 13 miles, soaking in the sights and sounds, and making minimal use of my phone, checking every few miles to make sure I didn’t overshoot my targets (parks and botanical gardens).')