Item(by='bmitc', descendants=None, kids=None, score=None, time=1604329349, title=None, item_type='comment', url=None, parent=24967353, text='My worry that has happened with Trump’s presidency is the normalization that has occurred. For example, it is not my impression or understanding that Trump has any actual policies or stances and that he does not actually do any presiding. My understanding is that if he is not rallying, he is either tweeting, vacationing, or watching TV and barely takes on more than a few meetings a day. A president who reportedly spends upwards of six to eight hours a day watching TV is no president. The problem is that he is simply a caricature of a president, letting others do the actual policing making and tasks behind the scenes. For example, Trump doesn’t have anything to do with his own supposed immigration policies. They’re primarily written by a third generation Jewish immigrant who somehow is a white supremacist.<p>The secondary effect of this normalization is the normalization of hate. That is, the idea that these policies rooted in hate and bigotry are somehow normalized into legitimate stances. It’s mind boggling to me that a person with the last name of Gomez as found in the article could somehow support policies that have Mexican children in concentration camps on U.S. soil. We’re all immigrants here who forcefully took this land. It’s mind boggling that anyone in the U.S. could hate immigrants enough to want them treated the way the Trump “presidency” has.<p>It’s just very concerning. A president who is not a president is treated as one, and it legitimatizes his hateful and ignorant words. Trump likely has clinical personality disorders, and I would not be surprised if his mental capacity is extremely low. He took on running for presidency as yet another attempt to recover his brand and be a source of revenue, and it’s in all likelihood that if he loses, he will be launching his own TV network, i.e. continuing to abuse his presidency to further his brand. He basically only won in the first place due to the undue influence of Robert Mercer, a living breathing Bond villain.<p>Trump is a literal cancer and has been used as a character actor by the Republican Party. That is it. Whether someone dislikes Democrats or whatever, you cannot argue for the legitimacy of Trump and his presidency.')