Item(by='bluepoint', descendants=None, kids=[24983072, 24967944, 24974789], score=None, time=1604315587, title=None, item_type='comment', url=None, parent=24965883, text='Of course it is an opinion, just like any other comment. But the things I write about his background is a pretty common opinion which does have some evidence. He him self released audio of the euromeetings where he acts like an observer, in order to accuse the european leaders of ignoring him. Imagine the attitude of someone who goes to negotiate, while filming in order to show that the negotiations failed and it was not his fault. Which means he was intending for the negotiations to fail. The head of the comisión of the time said that he was basically not participating in the negotiations and he talked he would give long talks about nothing. He was eventually fired by the Greek prime minister, when things got really dangerous. There are articles about what he says and what he writes in Greece, and well, maybe it is my opinion that he talks bulshit, the people in power ignore him and he acts as if he is some kind anti-hero. He was playing games and bluffs, hoping that he does not need to do anything since he believed that the european union would do anything to save Greece in order to save the euro. So he was bluffing, vaguely obviously, that he does not mind to take Greece out of the EU (later it was found that he was preparing a home made currency, like home made beer, at that level). Then it turned out that the Germans were fond of the idea, and they were considering to propose a temporary (aka permanent) grexit for a couple of years. This is public info by the way, even if you believe half of these things, I see very little reason to praise this guy. I mean there are other people who stand against the system and win fights against it, in their minds, in their couches, but we don’t go and praise them, do we? Sorry, I do apologize, speaking about this guy, I just cannot not be sarcastic, he just brings this to people.')