Item(by='coward8675309', descendants=None, kids=[24999641], score=None, time=1604592745, title=None, item_type='comment', url=None, parent=24998201, text='If you read TFA you’d note that quite possibly none of these people are rich or elite according to any reasonable Progressive taxonomy of evil. And they are not showing that the law doesn’t apply to them; they realize that what they’re doing could land them in jail. And the article points out that the fame these people achieve is minor and fleeting — perhaps nonexistent — and Cannonballers often do it not for the fame but for the inherent challenge of it.<p>These people embody the hacker ethos, and while their actions obviously inhabit an ethical grey area, challenges like the Cannonball speak to some adventurous souls in a way that no officially sanctioned event can. Note also, according to TFA, that the worst injury that has happened as a result of a Cannonball attempt was a driver breaking her arm after drifting off the road as a result of falling asleep at the wheel.<p>Cannonballers and people like them are akin to the skater kids of Dogtown and Z-Boys while the acceptable events that a child of your comment mentioned are events for the well-scrubbed kids being driven around by their parents for soccer or lacrosse practice. But even skating has been captured by the parents and the commercical skate parks. We should pour one out for the death of yet another activity that people used to practice, yes maybe a bit for the possibility of fame but more likely, for the pure joy of that moment when everything comes together and you hook up.<p>That’s why I’ve been doing start-ups for over twenty-five years. That’s why I rode my motorcycle solo between Brooklyn and Long Beach, CA, in fewer than four days, that’s why I’ve ridden solo to Alaska and across the Trans-Labrador Highway.<p>I am posting this anonymously not because I’m afraid of anyone’s downvotes — I’ve whored my way to enough karma to burn at will — but because I don’t want to publicly associate myself with what I’ve done. The rewards of doing many of these things are quiet and private, and talking about them in public take something away from their merit because it amounts to boasting.<p>These people do this for themselves, or to people able to share a beer with the people they did it with or someone who knows what they’ve gone through. These people, in all of their moral ambiguity, need to be respected. And “respected despite the moral ambiguity” is something that too few people can do today.')