Item(by='jelliclesfarm', descendants=None, kids=None, score=None, time=1604623680, title=None, item_type='comment', url=None, parent=25003412, text='Of course, it’s plowed back into investment. The prime directive of a capitalistic system is to create CAPITAL. Capital creates industry and jobs and money circulation. Taxes are the bloat in the beast called Big Govt. it sits there like inside the belly of a constipated beached whale.<p>Even pension funds and unions invest in the companies that make the profit. Chicago Teachers Union, iirc, has over 45k shares of AMZN. They also took a guillotine outside a Jeff Bezos building to make a ‘point’. It’s just hypocrisy if one believes it and ignorance if one parrots the ‘eat the rich’ line.<p>So when exactly do people start becoming responsible for their own lives? Social net is for those who genuinely need help. The weak, unfortunate, disabled and for those who need a helping hand. Society cannot shoulder the responsibility to take care of individuals whose are supposed to know better.<p>Political power does not benefit the wealthy class at all. This is absolutely untrue, but is often parroted over and over without people questioning the meaning of it.<p>A lot of the attitude comes from people without looking into the homes of people who have means and wondering why they can’t have what someone else does..what they don’t see is the countless hours of hard work and sacrifice and time away from family and other things that people take for granted. Why do they do it? To be wealthy is one of the goals. It is absolutely cruel to punish people for chasing their dreams. Taxes on the wealthy is punitive because they have to pay the troll under the bridge to cross it.<p>When I see someone railing against millionaires about the drug addicts and homeless on SF, I want to ask if they ever asked the parents of these model citizens? Their blood relatives? Their so called friends? Their community? Their high school friends?<p>If everyone took care of 1. Themselves 2. Their immediate family 3. Their extended family 4. Their friends 5. Their community 6. Their extended community FIRST, we wouldn’t have to knock on the doors of millionaires. Who cares how the rich live...most of us should look at how we ourselves live and how our loved ones and those we care about live.<p>It’s like watching a child in a park watching a rich kid hack into an obscenely large cake. Another parent who is feeding his own kid a modest snack drags the starving kid to the rich kid’s parents and demands that they share their big fat cake with the starving kid. Hey! Isn’t it always easier to make plans for how others should generously share their wealth?<p>The problem is not ‘the wealthy’. The problem is lack of healthy community and healthy supportive families. No amount of wealth sharing or stealing from the rich or taxes or plain old money will fix it.')