Item(by='bluejekyll', descendants=None, kids=None, score=None, time=1604809691, title=None, item_type='comment', url=None, parent=25022505, text='For a significant portion of that time, quite possibly. In the lead up to the Civil War, there were many debates about ending slavery through the 1820’s and 30’s. There were even mini wars over the issue in the 1850’s, and then the actual event beginning in the 1860’s. This was then followed by a new subjugation of free people in the South beginning in 1875 and the Jim Crow period. During this post Civil War period is the ongoing Wars with Native Americans to expand the land of the US (though this was supported by both parties mostly). Then women’s suffrage  coming to a head 1920’s (along with huge issues related to the ban on alcohol at the same time). Also during this period is a huge debate going on between banks and farmers during the Great Depression. Then following WWII the beginning of demands for equal rights in the South to get rid of Jim Crow, gaining major steam in the 50’s and 60’s, and then being joined with Women’s liberation.<p>And then we come to the huge divide that starts more recently during the Bush administration and the demand for LGBTQ equal rights (brewing strongly since the ‘70s) and more recently a revisiting of policing and criminal justice which brings us to today. There are periods where the divide seems to ebb and flow. Probably 10-20 year spans, and then a recognition by the greater community that things remain unfair for various groups.<p>It’s hard to say, but let’s say more than 50% of American history is a divide of some sort on various issues. Is it due to two parties? Or do the parties coalesce around the issues that are brewing at the most extreme boiling points? Or worse, do the two parties use various issues as wedges to create divide where one might not otherwise exist? (All of this is from my own memory and study, so I’m sure there are major things I’ve glossed over or missed not being an expert in the area)')