Item(by='johnisgood', descendants=None, kids=None, score=None, time=1605028820, title=None, item_type='comment', url=None, parent=25041315, text='You are getting down-voted too by people who do not even bother replying, probably some blind followers, government-loving NPCs.<p>You know how you could turn this against them to make them think twice about it? Get the Russian vaccines, or the Chinese. Yeah, do it! Suddenly they are not so keen... Now imagine if their beloved State made it mandatory to get Russian vaccines inside them. They would most likely be against it, and our votes would not be down... It is not even the votes I give a damn about, but the fact that we do not know THAT much of COVID-19 but people seem to believe the claims that we have extremely safe vaccines ready just within a few months. Yeah, they say that of the Russian vaccines, too, are you going to take it, down-voter? Would you like the State to make it mandatory for your kid to get vaccinated? I am curious.<p>My entire family tested positive for COVID-19, and my grandma most likely has it. None of us has&#x2F;had symptoms. I do not want to get vaccinated. If you (not you, the down-voters) really care, go get vaccinated by the Russian vaccines.<p>My country plans to vaccinate the elderly, kids, and people with chronic diseases first, then the rest of the population. I really, really wonder how many people are going to have FORESEEABLE side-effects. I think they are also planning to make it mandatory.<p>P.S. I am not an anti-vaxxer, but these claims by pharmaceutical companies sound shady as heck. If they said they found the vaccine after 5 days and they claim it is super safe because 5 people did not die from it within 10 days, would it make you OK the vaccine? Come on. My problem is that. It is too quick, and too many promises of lack of side-effects, and lots of financial interest. For that I do not believe them. We (medical workers) even have to lie about people dying from COVID-19 so we (the hospital) get more funding. How about that? Governments put price control on the tests, which resulted in zero competition as it was not worth it for private businesses to continue testing. How about that?')