Item(by='542354234235', descendants=None, kids=None, score=None, time=1605024845, title=None, item_type='comment', url=None, parent=25044767, text='You are thinking of a traditional force on force battle, which is not what it would be. Looking at the Taliban in Afghanistan would be a more accurate picture of how it would look. It would be an insurgency of mostly unknown members that lived with and among average citizens, as well as a larger support network of citizens that provided material support (food, equipment, medical supplies, etc) to “the cause”.<p>You would have a small percent of “full time” insurgents that would probably operate in rural areas of the US, in order to better hide larger equipment, but that would be the minority. Most of the time they would be avoiding conflict with military forces, only attacking vulnerable areas and forcing the military to guard everything. I remember reading that trying to surveil Afghanistan was already using the majority of the US’ aerial surveillance assets. The US is massive, with huge rural areas and tons of regular traffic to hide amongst.<p>A dictator would likely attempt to crush opposition with a heavy handed military response. That would likely serve in the insurgents favor, as it would turn the average citizen against the military strangers with tanks in the streets, checkpoints, and extra judiciary killings of civilians. Just look at the police protests and riots over the summer. The heavy police response stoked more anger and resolve and grew protests and people willing to provide support.<p>It is also worth noting that we don’t know how much of the military would fall in line with this. And even if they did, how many would secretly help the insurgency. How many insurgents would be tipped off to unguarded National Guard bases with military hardware? Do you really think the military would willingly use nukes on its own people? Bombers? Tanks? Just because the military has them, doesn’t mean they could be used effectively.')