Item(by='IgorPartola', descendants=None, kids=[25053563, 25053601], score=None, time=1605048857, title=None, item_type='comment', url=None, parent=25052866, text='It occurs to me that as we become more and more connected globally the less there will be a need for the media. Hear me out: let’s take this to the limit of our ability to communicate. Let’s say that we develop a direct interface between the brain and the Internet via some sort of implantable chip. Any information you want to know becomes instantly knowable in your brain. Moreover, you can request info about certain topics a la a curated Twitter feed. If an earthquake happens in Japan or new Oscar nominees are announced, you know about it soon as you think about it or think about “I wonder what has been happening today?” And of course all the information is gathered in aggregators that automatically verify that multiple people did witness the particular event to verify authenticity.<p>Under these conditions it becomes unnecessary for someone to do the basic legwork of seeking out stories and curating them, no? Interpreting the stories of course does require someone’s time and energy, but for example there would be no need to go and investigate what is happening with the earthquake rescue because the first responders could effortlessly share their thoughts&#x2F;experiences, the person in charge could instantly add their voice to the info stream telling everyone what the clean up&#x2F;rescue plans are, etc. What role would a newspaper play in a setup like this?<p>Now, we aren’t there yet. We are not a hive mind and sharing what we are witnessing takes time and effort. A first responder isn’t going to stop and tweet about what’s going on. And the even bigger hurdle is consuming this much information. That problem hasn’t been solved yet. But we are closer to that than not: Twitter and Reddit allow regular people to share what they are seeing: earthquakes, protests, awards ceremonies, graduations. Curation will only get better. Whereas before only the select few had a voice because it was expensive, now almost anyone can broadcast to a huge swath of humanity.')