Item(by='poletopole', descendants=None, kids=[25070961], score=None, time=1605151155, title=None, item_type='comment', url=None, parent=25051710, text='I read Ted Kaczynski’s manifesto a few days ago out of curiosity to find answers about why serial killers don’t make the media anymore, not even on fbi.gov. I asked my mother the same question since she routinely calls the FBI to interrogate them for reasons I won’t discuss here. Even she was surprised by the question and thought it very odd as well. It seems that the “new speak” for serial killers changed after the patriot act. They are now labeled as “terrorists”.<p>I found Kaczynski’s manifesto actually is harder to find than one would imagine. There are many falsified versions of it circulating online. When I did find the original, it became abundantly clear why talking heads frame him only in context of rumors and never about the philosophy behind the manifesto. What he wrote is a hard pill to swallow, all for the same reasons Castaneda’s works are all but scrubbed from mainstream culture. For even a mature adult, for example, a software developer, to concede that their entire industry in practice and as a science is a manufactured and dogmatic “surrogate” ritual, is the reason they are depressed and humiliated, would undermine their purpose and significance in life.<p>The easy answer for the OP is that simply SEO ruined the internet. The harder answer might be that, in Kaczynski’s terminology, our “power process” as individuals is all but lost. Empirically, finding relevant resources online in the 90’s required considerably more effort than it does today. If I’m stuck fixing a bug today all I have to perform is a painless Google search. Why then would this be problematic? As Kaczynski argues, the more we remove the effort to perform our work, the more demoralizing it becomes. This is because, although the technology (Google) is useful, it nevertheless systematically removed the power and purpose derived from the challenge and art of that technicality. Software engineers have the distinction and privilege of being first witness to this complex deprive the rest of humanity of purpose because we’re the ones programming it. Or so the story goes...<p>So to answer the OP’s question: the internet is now boring because it’s no longer a challenge.')