Item(by='kls', descendants=None, kids=None, score=None, time=1605314188, title=None, item_type='comment', url=None, parent=25078523, text='I agree, they started with a confederation and ended up with a republic realizing while a confederation was ideal, it would not survive. Now in saying that, we do have to take into account the times.<p>For example the separation of church and state, they really could not event envision in their time, that the government should have never been involved in the marriage issue in the first place as it is a religious institution. The government has a legal process for a group working as an entity and that is either a corporation or a trust. From the onset families and their legal rights should have been an inherent trust. This would have kept the religious dogma out of the gay marriage argument and left it to the denominations as to whether they want to sanction the ceremony of marriage or not.<p>Obviously slavery would be another issue, but again I see that as the times, as the people believed that a particular race was less than human. This was corrected via amendments but I don&#x27;t think a different form of government, at the time, would have reached a more humanitarian conclusion. So we don&#x27;t really get to ding the republic for it.<p>The problem I have is that the republic works very well, history is littered with the successes of the republic in offering prosperity to its people. The issue is that the republic by its very nature tends to generally gives way to empires. What we have now is an empire, it, in no way shape or form, resembles the original republic, with the exception of vestiges. so it is irksome to hear people lament the foundation as bad or not sufficient and utilize present day examples to do so. The American republic has been gone for a long time. The railroad barons chipped away at it, citizens united chipped away at it, the move to push more and more to the federal level chipped away at it and much, much more, to the extent that we no longer remotely resemble the foundational republic. The prescription is not to fundamentally change what we where, rather it is to take lessons learned and apply them to getting back to a true republic, with fixes to that original model. That is what the founders did, the studied Rome, they studied Greece and tried to account for the failings that they suffered and what allowed them to slide towards the empire and tyranny.')