Item(by='hakrIconz', descendants=None, kids=None, score=None, time=1605298022, title=None, item_type='comment', url=None, parent=25085063, text='Ya no I’ve always thought a little bit different since I was a kid. Then I got locked up for a few years and I had those years to think about the world for what it true you is. But you just got to accept it. Which is also the variable that should be set for. Everything is going to continue moving on as long as time itself lasts. So that veriable is adaptivity.  Say I wanted to do as you say and build a utopia. A utopia is something that you perseve as “your” perfect world \nBut my question I guess is. Would there be control over you in your utopia? Then why would you put it there in the first place. I mean that as control in a way how cops control the streets. Gangsters and drugs.  As I said I think very differently and if you read it several times and still don’t get it:),,, but from there. I have my adaptive variable. And now comes my constant, manipulation. And persuasion.  You may think but that’s wrong..... well that’s true but then again that’s how cops and lawyers stay in control.   So my theory I wrote a while back is the stack theory;) I wrote it idk I named it so yeah....<p>It’s all about the people around you to start with. You have to trust the first group to the fullest to have your back 100% . And I know I’m getting off the path of technology. But idk if you ever were younger not knowing anything about bloods and crips and there is always that one kid that’s like . Yeah the rulers of each gang is the same guy, or best friends.. well same is true to any concept. There cannot be peace without chaos I hear sometimes.. well actually that’s a little true in stack theory. Because...to have your utopia you have to be willing to do anything to get it. In stackz theory you structure your business like your adaptive variable.. which is the goal in which your company heads. But has to be fluently. For example how a tree trimming service could sell their wood to a lumber mill. So keep that tree service . The profit. Open up a lumber mill and continue to “stack” with the same normal responsibilities or average employees. You hire as you expand. Move as one organism. Starting off with the first stack.')