Item(by='ig0r0', descendants=None, kids=None, score=None, time=1605431290, title=None, item_type='comment', url=None, parent=25096877, text='My depression started in the summer of last year because of health problems. My leg hurt from the knee up and I could not move properly. I did not leave the apartment for 2 weeks when it started. Not being able to move properly was a really bad experience for me, especially psychologically. I got sent from doctor to doctor, nobody knowing who to do with me. Later I started physical therapy, I do not think it helped, just the problem was slowly going away. It came back around Christmas making it the worse Christmas of my life. At least I was able to travel to my home country to visit my parents and the family. I started going to doctors again but the covid-19 hit and they all stopped seeing non critical patients. I basically turned to my own research about the problem, reading articles, watching videos about specific exercises, etc.<p>The travel restrictions because of covid-19 also meant I could not travel home, even if it is a neighboring country. I usually got every 2-3 months, it took 7 months to get there. I was planning a wedding with my girlfriend, in my home country, but all the plans got busted with the restrictions, but we were able to get a September slot for a small wedding. 2 weeks before the wedding my grandma died. My grandpa did not take it well, still is not taking it well, i am a bit afraid of him, that he is loosing the will to live. We buried my grandma a day before the wedding.<p>The back from my home country just missing another travel restrictions and back to dealing with the health issues. At the same time I decided to quite my job. I have been hating it for a while, because of a borderline abusive boss. He made a few good people leave the company and here was no way to replace him as he was also the owner. Fed up with everything, but I guess mostly my health issues affecting me daily I decided to quit. I found a company that looked cool, went to 5 rounds of interviews. At the end I had some doubts about the job, but I guess I just really wanted to leave the current job so I accepted.<p>I started the new job now in November and it sucks. It is an environment that makes me depressed, seeing all the broken stuff and chaos, unable to make a difference. I want to quite again, but I do not know where to go. I guess I have just too specific recommendations that are not easily fulfilled by not wanting to be some small cog in a corporate machine.<p>And I will not be able to travel home for Christmas because of the current covid-19 situation, will be first Christmas away from the family. But with a new family I guess.')