Item(by='thrwwytechsales', descendants=8, kids=[25131596, 25131540, 25131736, 25131691, 25131512], score=5, time=1605656968, title='Ask HN: HELP Got accused of hacking by my older non-tech-savvy coworkers', item_type='story', url=None, parent=None, text='Hi fellow Hs,<p>Obviously this is a throwaway account. I recently joined a company as a tech sales person, but the team I joined is made up of mostly salespersons in their 60s. They are really not experienced with working with computers at all. So while I was doing training, I had shared my screen with them on a conference call, but previously, unrelated to the training I had done Inspect Element on the website so that I can make the website more user friendly for me and to save on time with the clicking, I had however not done any changes to it yet. Mind you, the website is a thirdparty cloud based SaaS dialing system that we use, we dont own the platform, nor we are anyhow affiliated with them. So when I shared my screen they started asking questions about the code that was showing on my screen. Coincidentally just at that moment, the system crashed, and then the coworkers started blaming me that I hacked the system. They called the IT guy, which said that due to end user agreements I should not be doing any edits to the website, and that the correlation is &quot;disconcerning&quot;. I dont think anybody understood what he meant by that, and he had an urgent call to respond to so he hopped out of the call. The system started working again, but they continued saying that I hacked the system and that the IT guy confirmed it. Then the work hours finished so they said that they will discuss this in the morning tomorrow. What do I do now?!? I mean its a big corp, and the sales team is mostly 60+ people, with the managers being younger in their 30s or 40s. I tried to explain to them what Inspect Element is but they werent having it. I kinda understand that I shouldnt really be working for this company anymore, but I dont wanna end up losing my job or getting lawsuits or something. I told them that if I could hack the servers I would already be working for the Israeli Government instead of being in tech sales hahaha. I just couldnt stop laughing throughout this whole ordeal.')