Item(by='conductr', descendants=None, kids=None, score=None, time=1606233178, title=None, item_type='comment', url=None, parent=25195694, text='Glad to hear this. I’ve actually never discussed with anyone that chose that procedure. Admit I might have mis-remembered the operation time, it was a long time ago and I’m not fact checking myself just went off memory. But was something long enough that I remember discussing with the doctor.<p>It’s all good points we did consider, that again I didn’t even recall at time of writing. She will have some maintenance operations like you said, we weighed that and felt ok with it (same maintenance that any person with implants will have, replacing every 10-20 years).<p>I agree with the leading edge and exciting part you mentioned. We had to find a surgeon that was young enough to know the procedure. It was our original plan, then when we told him we decided against it later you could see the excitement fade in his demeanor. (Cynically I say because he knew the pay day was smaller. But I work with a lot of doctors on the business end, and this is really how many of them think.) Also was a concern. I don’t remember the details, but what are long term implications of moving things around? This space is rife with examples of once cutting edge procedures that in hindsight are causing problems.<p>All that said, we had a thing happen to my wife where super routine procedure turned into her almost dying from loss of blood. She had to have transfusions and whatnot. It was horrible experience. So, we gained a strong aversion.<p>My main point is, whatever you chose, it’s really easy to get “used to” the scars and looks of it. Of course, some people don’t and it affects the sex life and all that. But I think using data about what MEN think on gut reaction can be harmful and misleading because it’s going to steer towards something that may not be the best decision for the patient. It’s difficult to design a survey that takes “getting used to it” time into account, but I feel like that would be more appropriate. I know my wife’s main concern was looking normal in clothes. But that was a proxy for symmetry and size and things she equates with “normal”.')