Item(by='o-__-o', descendants=None, kids=None, score=None, time=1606434436, title=None, item_type='comment', url=None, parent=25216621, text='Once upon a time about four years ago I made a system that would monitor my location based on WiFi signal strength.  If I was watching a movie from my local DLNA server, I could track the progress of the video (remotable software on a fire tv).  If I was watching tv, I could query what channel my hdhomerun was on.  I then put this together.<p>If my phone moved from downstairs to upstairs or vice versa, the movie would rewind 10 seconds and would be played on the tv upstairs or downstairs.  This gave me the ability to move between my two rooms with TVs and the show would follow me.  For antenna tv, the hdhomerun app would be loaded and set to the correct channel.  I wanted to expand this to my zwave lights using motion sensors but never got around to it because I was fixated on my garage.<p>My garage has a camera that can stream rtsp.  I had recently played with opencv and got it to detect our cars with pretty good accuracy but our cars are generic cars that half of america drives. So I spent almost 2 years trying to figure a way to get the system to identify our cars.  I went so far down the path of using a raspberry pi in the car to authenticate with the house which would trigger the garage door to open as we pull up the driveway.  Then my buddy recommended two colored stickers on our windshield.  So simple and it worked! (Edit: a lot of this can be resolved today with a high resolution camera that can make out our license plate from a far enough distance... but I just lowered my car and ripped off the front license plate so back to square one)<p>I’ve been fighting small bugs for the last year or so that makes it hard to use (dog may set off the motion sensor, or you forget your phone and lights and tv turns off thinking no one is around). Plus we got a new tv which replaced the buggy fire tv last Christmas which has a completely different api and less interaction. I’ve considered using Bluetooth so smart wristbands could replace our phones but other projects have creeped into scope.<p>I would love to solve it but have a very hard time selling the system to friends and family who think nothing of flipping a light switch or picking up a remote.  Maybe this is a tech too early for its time?')