Item(by='tF73d78kq8t3R6n', descendants=None, kids=[25220542], score=None, time=1606402326, title=None, item_type='comment', url=None, parent=25220279, text='I drive a RAM 2500 with a Cummins 6.7l diesel engine. Perhaps I can help provide some perspective. It’s a uniquely useful vehicle whose utility a regular SUV will never hope to approach. It’s my daily driver and grocery getter. My neighbors and I “time share” a boat in that they pay for the care and feeding of the boat, and I take care of shifting the boat when it’s on land. I never pay to have anything delivered. If it’s small enough to fit in the truck’s bed, I throw it in. If it’s bigger, I rent a trailer, and then sky’s the limit. I moved across the country with it using a 12’ long rented trailer, and it was a breeze. I carry my kayaks in the back - just throw them in, strap them down, and go to the water. Not a week passes without this truck enabling me to haul, tow, or drag something heavy or awkward. My wife’s car broke down, so I towed it using my truck and a rented car trailer to the repair shop. If I had a penny for each time I’d helped pull someone out of a ditch, I’d have enough to purchase a new set of recovery straps.<p>Let’s talk about some difficulties. It’s a temperamental beast at times. I live in the South, so I don’t have the “cold start” problem, but I don’t have an engine block heater either. So whenever I travel north, I have to take care. Haven’t had any real issues yet - the truck’s remote starter seems to fend for itself - but I’m wary of it. Repairs can be expensive, since all components are commercial-grade and are priced accordingly. Maintenance is more expensive, but it’s a much more rare event than in a gasser. Parking in an urban environment can be a pain. Parallel parking requires skill, and there are some multistory parking structures in which I will not fit. A little bit of upfront planning seems to alleviate these problems. The truck is loud, but you only really hear it when driving slowly between two large buildings. My neighbors don’t complain, especially since they benefit from it so much.<p>Oh, and I can smoke most other vehicles when doing a little Saturday night racing off a stop light.')