Item(by='scarface74', descendants=None, kids=None, score=None, time=1606570481, title=None, item_type='comment', url=None, parent=25232648, text='Of course now I have to apply a standard disclaimer. In my other comments, I hopefully tried not to make them AWS specific and lumped AWS, Azure and GCP together. I do work for AWS as a consultant. But I mostly do custom development. I don’t deal with networking infrastructure outside of my own projects that I deliver to customers.  All opinions are my own.<p>I have eight and soon nine AWS certifications I’ve only ever paid for one out of pocket. The companies I worked for paid for the rest. But I would say that the certifications prove nothing as far whether you are proficient in the certain skillset.<p>I got my first certification without ever logging into the console. The only reason I got any of the certs (besides the 7th one that was required when I was hired at AWS ProServe) was to have a guided learning path with a goal at the end. The most they do is let you know what you don’t know and the “what” but not the “how”. I am consistently disappointed about how easy the certifications are compared to what I really need to know on the job.<p>How can you get a developers certification from AWS and not know the first thing about development? How can you get a database certification and not know any of the query languages involved? I needed to learn about ElasticSearch a couple of years ago for a project. I bought a course from Udemy that was 20 hours long to learn the ends and outs of it and they even admitted glossing over some advanced parts.<p>You can take a 14 hour course in AWS Data Analytics and pass the course. The exam  consists of Redshift (an OLAP database), ElasticSearch, various Apache frameworks (Hive, Presto, Spark, Hadoop, HBase, HUE, etc.), Kinesis (stream processing), Glue (Serverless PySpark infrastructure) and a few other services. Do you think that certification would qualify anyone to actually implement any project on AWS? Should I have hired someone based on the certification when I was in the real world?<p>While I disagree with all of the posters who say stuff like because the used Digital Ocean for their Todo app that they “know AWS”, I would hire a developer with no AWS experience before I would hire someone with an AWS Developers certification with no development experience. The same is true for all of the other specialities - Databases, Data Analytics, ML&#x2F;AI, etc.<p>Except for infrastructure and networking. I’ve seen far too many on prem network folks who got one certification and called themselves “consultants” and ended up costing the company more because they didn’t know how to leverage services being offered.')