Item(by='NineStarPoint', descendants=None, kids=None, score=None, time=1607201170, title=None, item_type='comment', url=None, parent=25311140, text='The problem is that the habits people learn at their first few jobs will carry forward into jobs where the ability to talk back is an advantage, and that fixing that requires a lot of effort and either deep introspection or a good mentor who will notice the issues. By the time the issue is fixed, those who entered the system without the issues will be years or decades ahead in their careers.<p>Yes, someone from poverty can overcome these issues with a combination of effort and luck. But it’s hard to do, and many either don’t try or fail. This is a waste of human potential, where someone who maybe could have done better given a better starting environment loses out just due to the circumstances of their birth. Anyone who could have had a billion dollar idea and ends up hurt by their circumstances is a loss to us as a society. The tools are available for everyone who asks for it, but many are born such that they’d never trust the system enough to ask for it.<p>I guess I would phrase it as the difference between “their is societal mobility, in that people from any start can improve their lot” and “there is societal mobility, in that people from any start have equal opportunity as those born at the top to be successful.” America has the first, but is very far away from the second. I doubt it’s actually possible to reach the second completely of course, just get closer to it.<p>In the end I agree. How we actually fix this is full of so many questions. As far as America is concerned, I believe the “right to work” laws that allow firing without reason probably deeply increase the fear of those at all levels of the totem pole, but especially those close to poverty. Of course that’s just one of many issues, and repealing those laws creates economic inefficiency in making it hard to fire poor performers. Which has worse side effects is debatable, and there are endless questions indeed.')