Item(by='IgorPartola', descendants=None, kids=None, score=None, time=1607628095, title=None, item_type='comment', url=None, parent=25369929, text='That last part... so this is a real incident that happened to me: I am originally from Ukraine. I came to the US a long time ago but was in Ukraine as a teenager. My father and his father also live in the US. One day my father asked me to come over and help him finish building his fence so I did. When I got there the two of them were working on it and it turned out that my help would consist of driving them to Home Depot with my slightly larger than my father’s car to bring some wooden planks and hardware back. So the three of us go and pick out the planks (that could have probably easily fit into my father’s car but whatever) and then we hit a crisis: they needed to pick a gate latch as the final bit of hardware. We go to the correct aisle and the two of them start looking for the correct kind of latch. My grandfather who was born in a small village not too much prior to WWII immediately goes to the very end of the section and picks up the cheapest latch that costs $0.49 and says “this is clearly the best choice.” My father goes next to him and picks out a $0.79 latch that is 30 cents nicer and says “I don’t want a cheap latch. I want this fence and gate to look nice.” My grandfather counters with “this is just a latch. Who cares how nice it is?” My father counters with “this is my fence and I don’t want to be embarrassed about how it looks. Quality matters.” My grandfather responds with something like “it’s not the latch that matters it’s how you build it.” They went on like this for about 15 minutes. Eventually I came up and grabbed a $1.19 latch and said “how about I just buy you this one and we can get out of here?” to which both of them responded with “you can’t do that. You don’t know what you are talking about.” To which I said “it’s my money and this thing costs so little that why would it matter?” My grandfather countered with “then you are clearly not good with money, spending too dollar on something like a latch. They are all the same, so why pay more?” This is when a Home Depot employee approached us to ask if we needed any help and was told by my father that no we were all set and we found the latch we needed (the one he was holding). The employee walked away clearly knowing we were far from all set but also knowing full well that this was a family matter. After 15 more minutes my father put his foot down and went to the checkout and bought the $0.79 latch. The ride home was very tense and silent though my grandfather did help him install the latch when we got back.<p>I am still not sure what the moral of the story is but since then I have been fortunate enough to not need to advice anyone on gate latch choices.')