Item(by='noetic_techy', descendants=None, kids=None, score=None, time=1607750872, title=None, item_type='comment', url=None, parent=25391202, text='I actually agree somewhat and hear me out.  I think these people don&#x27;t realize the juggernaut they are creating.  I&#x27;m a political centrist but even I see it.  Suppression of the message will only amplify it.<p>Prediction:<p>Trump will run again in 2024, no doubt.  Consider the implications of that for a second.  He already said he will be holding a major 2024 rally in DC during the Biden inauguration.  Imagine the shadow that will cast on Biden Day 1, especially if half the population thinks the election was stolen and no outlet for that opinion (even Fox News).  Coupled that with the current infighting within the DNC between progressives vs the corporate establishment elitist liberals that they accuse Biden of being, and they are essentially giving Trump all the foundation he needs to become the underground anti-establishment anti-DC-swamp anti-deep-state no-lobbyist no-China-influence anti-MSM anti-big-tech real-middle-east-peace i-already-was-president anti-hunter-biden-corruption and even anti-fox-news candidate which will go viral and make him even more of outlier then he was in 2016.  Trump will use all of this and more (Hunter Biden story suppression especially) as real a boogyman to point to.  The totalitarian dictator analogies will no longer hold any water when it turns out he steps down peacefully but not quietly on Nov 3rd, albeit with a huge legal fuss that fizzled out.  He will aggrandize himself and play that as him being a fighter to the bitter end to his base. I don&#x27;t think the GOP can primary anyone good enough to beat that version of Trump and you will see a massive blue collar class vote swap from DNC to GOP.<p>The writing is on the wall, eventually there will be bifurcation in Big Tech and Twitter and Youtube will become the walled garden for the left of center only and largely irreverent with conservatives with things like Parlor and BitChute and others taking the exodus.  It will turn into a battle for the centrists eyeballs to come to their sides platform or straddle both.  The analogy of Reddit banning toxic subs only holds if everyone is ACTUALLY on reddit, most simply left.  There is already talk among conservatives of alternative Reddits and Facebooks, alternatives Netflix&#x2F;Hollywood companies, alternative Fox News even.  Many will say &quot;but those will be subject to the same problems of early Twitter and Reddit, how to excise the toxic elements and keep the real discussion.&quot;  I would say that can EASILY be done without going down the censorship rabbit hole by simply knowing where to stop.  Get rid of the illegal stuff, the spam and pornography, and leave the rest regardless of how distasteful it is.  Its an Overton Window problem, you just need slightly looser boundary condition on discourse.  Stop pretending to be platforms and admit you are indeed publishers to an extent.  Give users the ability to filter what they don&#x27;t want to see and pledge to never bias your algorithms.  The cries of the left will be largely irrelevant, they will simply tell you to &quot;go back to Twitter if you don&#x27;t like it&quot;.  Once the public loses faith and trust in your company or institution due to your sacrifices in credibility in the name of censorship of one sides information, there wont be any coming back from that loss of face.  I&#x27;m not saying this is a good or healthy thing for public discourse, but I do think ti will come to pass.<p>Its questionable whether Biden will make it all the way through his term due to age and decline, and he has already said he will step down after one term.  That means the DNC will likely roll with Kamala next (If they are smart they would re-primary her, but I dont think they have the will to, the backlash and collectivist guilt will be huge).  Kamala who couldn&#x27;t get 2% of her parties own primary vote in 2020, up against juggernaut viral version of Trump holding mega rallies and creating an alternative media empire he has already dropped hints at.<p>I predict the headlines of the future will largely revolve around how the MSM and Big Tech blew it and need find a way to outreach and repair their reputations and faith to the general public - and will look back at this move as a huge mistake compounding others.  The landscape will look totally different.<p>I welcome anyones disagreement with my prediction.  I will say it hinges on Trump pivoting correctly.')