Item(by='jacobwilliamroy', descendants=None, kids=None, score=None, time=1607900488, title=None, item_type='comment', url=None, parent=25410025, text='The law enforcement have always had a weird relationship with white supremacy. For example, The Base is not classified as a terrorist group, despite the fact that their members travel abroad to Ukraine to fight in Donbass, and they explicitly state in captured Telegram(tm) communications that they are training with the paramilitaries so they can more efficiently commit acts of terror when they return to the U.S. Despite that, the FBI still does not designate them as terrorists. The FBI prefers to call them &quot;racially motivated violent extremists&quot; or RMVEs. Still, officially, the FBI considers RMVEs to be equivalent in threat to foreign terrorists, but this was only recently announced in 2019. Progress is slow, but it happens. The whole cyberwar with 8chan has been fascinating to watch and it has given me a lot of hope for the future. I highly recommend reading if you are uninformed.<p>White supremacist fascist terrorism in the U.S. is real hard to deal with, mostly because it is very well hidden and decentralized. Communications are primarily through private end-to-end encrypted messaging apps. Organizations are more like alliances of isolated autonomous cells rather than one unified structure. Symbols, names and logos are often changed to avoid any association with genocide or fascism. The people who actually commit terrorist acts, such as Patrick Crusius who killed 20 people in an El Paso Walmart, are not publicly associated with any specific group, despite being radicalized through public communication channels appropriated by such groups. The cryptic nature of white supremacist groups also grants them considerable immunity to information war. &quot;Antifa&quot; and &quot;Black Lives Matter&quot; are recognizable brands with icons, logos, flags, colors; anyone can download those symbols and use them to misrepresent and discredit the movement. This in my opinion was the greatest mistake that Black Lives Matter and Antifa made. They underestimated and continue to underestimate the power of the media misinformation machine which is currently targeting them. They still haven&#x27;t accepted that we are post-truth, post-reality, operating on a purely emotional level. They will find great success when they learn how to use their messaging to connect with Americans on the heart level rather than trying to use shocking slogans to communicate complex high-level intellectual concepts to literal primates. For example, &quot;DEFUND THE POLICE&quot; was a terrible slogan almost perfectly designed to fail, despite the fact that I would not mind defunding the police if it meant we could offer better education to the 40% of American children currently failing school under social distancing.<p>The world now revolves around memes and emotions, not facts and science. Activism can only succeed if it is adapted to this new era of humanity.')