Item(by='vlovich123', descendants=None, kids=None, score=None, time=1608233260, title=None, item_type='comment', url=None, parent=25458853, text='Nope. Apple (&amp; many others) buy hardware companies all the time. The tech (or at least some of it) behind AirPods was an acquisition if I recall correctly.<p>I disagree that you need to be vertically integrated to make that kind of claim. Figure out the niche market you are targeting that is underserved by the big entities today (eg smart speakers, headphones, deep learning in mobile phones, flexible chips, etc) and why your HW solution is better.<p>The more challenging situation is if your solution has a higher switching&#x2F;training cost. If suddenly optimizing your chip requires a lot of training be up front with that and the training materials for SW devs will need to be top notch. If your chip has integration challenges with existing external components simplify them or make sure it’s a training thing for the HW engineers integrating your component.<p>Just as with SW the harder part is figuring out how to position your solution to be an easy yes. The parts that make HW difficult as a business is that prototyping and manufacturing require much larger lead times generally so all your costs go up (meaning you need deep deep pockets to bring it to market and patient partners).<p>Like don’t do what Mill CPU did. If your solution means “all SW ever needs to be rewritten” that’s a non starter of a business unless you’re targeting a small niche where that’s not prohibitive (eg military applications with 20 year duty cycles). Generally you want easy ways to make migration possible. So in the mill example, if they can’t focus on just the compiler to make their CPU perform well, they’re DOA. This pivot of “we also need to write our own OS” tells me they’re not going to be successful. Not because they’re technical claims are incorrect (they may be) but because the market they’re going after (or at least that they said) was the “x86” general compute market which is dominated by existing OSes.  why not fix the parts of Linux that are a problem for Mill?). Their approach is fundamentally incoherent and misdirected IMO.')