Item(by='Veserv', descendants=None, kids=None, score=None, time=1608254125, title=None, item_type='comment', url=None, parent=25461906, text='Obviously if you magically had such a secure bank vault and the analysis is limited to only that singular aspect one could make an objective claim that it fulfills certain objective, quantitative requirements which could make it a useful component of an overall security architecture. However, in terms of the entire system, human failings are process&#x2F;system failings. If there is a process which would routinely drop a pair of keys to the world&#x27;s most cryptographically secure bank vault then the whole system is, in fact, still terrible despite some of the components being competently done. In fact, if this were to actually occur, I would say the process is beyond amateurish as it somehow created an insecure system out of such an amazing component.<p>Even if we restrict ourselves to only consider the magic bank vault, it is still unreasonable to completely ignore everything else. It is a common problem for systems to be so hard to use or configure that it is nearly impossible to effectively use them. It would be like the magic bank vault requiring you to leave the keys unprotected on the ground at which point it would be unreasonable to claim the magic bank vault is a secure component since it can only be effectively integrated in an insecure fashion. Any claim that it was, in fact, integrated securely would need to positively demonstrate this fact against the common expectation of insecure integration.<p>Frankly, this is also getting very unrealistic. If any company had a system with even 10x that number of critical, trivial flaws I would be amazed. From my experience there are hundreds to thousands of such flaws which run through components at every level of design. Any system with hundreds of stupid flaws across hundreds of different components each of which can cause critical compromise is so poorly designed as to be anti-redundant and also hopelessly insecure. It is not even worth it to quibble over factors of 10 as by my reckoning these systems must improve by a factor of 1,000 to pose any real obstacle to a dedicated state actor unless somebody can actually point to a system that can withstand a $10M open prize with meaningful verifiable evidence for that claim.')