Item(by='jelliclesfarm', descendants=None, kids=None, score=None, time=1608277718, title=None, item_type='comment', url=None, parent=25464569, text='It is actually a good idea. It makes sure that all Californians get equal opportunity for education.<p>The problem though is that the redistribution of funds meant for school budgets do not go just for children’s education. It goes mostly towards non teaching staff salaries and pensions(usually the big fish in any school district makes no less than 350k. All public sector salaries available at transparentcalifornia website). The teachers pensions are also part of this. Do remember that the last salary drawn is pension paid for life. They don’t collect SSN checks which are capped. Unions muck it up further. It’s not like parents can sit in during these Union negotiation meetings even though it is the taxpayer who funds and pays for this entire circus.<p>The actual budget meant for children’s education gets smaller and smaller. Programs get cut, buildings are dangerously outdated, parents have to keep raising money for teachers and when the school district says Jump!, the only right response is How High?<p>If the school district superintendent gets 350k and the teachers only make 120k, that’s internal to them. It’s between management, teachers and their unions ..and they have to manage the pensions of all the teachers who have already retired, that’s not what education is about...we are not paying for education but for mismanagement of school budget and tax monies.<p>Why should parents and children get the short end of the stick? Why do tax payers who in good faith believe that the taxes are going to educate every child in California have to be blindsided by politics of unions and their internal conflicts and collusions. It is a betrayal of trust. And it’s expensive.<p>The major part of any school MUST be the salaries of the teachers as it is...significant part of the budget goes to paying teachers at the detriment of children’s education and building safety etc. and yet, it’s never enough. Probably because we are also covering their unfunded pension liabilities.<p>And that’s why LCFF was instituted so we’d never be able to trace back what portion of what taxes goes to pay whom..and California’s budget deficit is solely due to unfunded pension liabilities and gross mismanagement of tax revenue to patch every leak in the big ship called Big Gov in Sacramento.')