Item(by='AuNugget', descendants=3, kids=[25475466, 25468176, 25468547], score=12, time=1608255285, title='Going to Lambda School was disappointing to say the least', item_type='story', url=None, parent=None, text='I would like to make it very clear that this is my personal experience at Lambda School in the past year (Cohort: web 32). In the beginning it was great, the teams were happy and we learned&#x2F;wrote code all day. The TL’s were slightly hit or miss but we had all the resources you would expect from an expensive bootcamp. Things were sailing along as I completed the front end units and it wasn’t until backend that I smelled something funny. At the time I went through the backend unit it was an absolute joke, the lectures were disjointed and or rushed and the assignments we were doing were too large for anyone to grasp the basics. It turned out the whole backend unit (one month) could be reduced to a medium article and a sleepless night, yikes. This is about where things took a turn for the worst. I tried repeatedly to redo or “flex” the backend unit so I could really have the material mastered, ask more questions etc, as I am somebody who doesn’t move on until I feel comfortable and they denied me multiple times. So much for students controlling their own pace. This was really concerning as it is specifically stated by lambda that students can choose to flex if they feel it is necessary. Enter the “improvements”, they called an all school assembly that turned out to be just one big gaslighting session as they tried to spin huge changes the students were vocally against as “improvements”. This was not just an update to the UI or one more form. It was a complete overhaul of the school removing all the parts that pushed me to to attend in the first place. I felt and feel taken advantage of. I am not against innovation or iteration as it is the diving force in all tech but not holding up your end of a bargain and screwing over real people is not an innovation.')