Item(by='hardwaregeek', descendants=None, kids=[25496777, 25498169], score=None, time=1608566346, title=None, item_type='comment', url=None, parent=25495259, text='It’s interesting seeing how tuition costs influence students. I go to a school infamous for its high price. And truth be told, I don’t think I could advocate going here barring some serious prerequisites. One of which is having some idea of what to study. The classic idea of college being a place to mess around and figure out what to do with your life is absolutely delusional with tuition so high. Go figure out what to do with your life without it costing 40k+ a year.<p>That said, I have a feeling this isn’t a controversial point. A lot of my classmates come in seemingly focused on a particular career or field. The issue is that there’s no conceivable way they can be certain of their field this early. I’ve talked to far too many undergraduates who have decided on CS without knowing if they like programming. I have too many classmates who decided to major in chemistry or do pre-med because they liked their high school chemistry class. With these students, what happens if they discover they don’t like their major? For the undecided student, they’re unlikely to get far in a subject they don’t like. They’ll leave after a class because they’re not set on it. A decided student will likely feel that they’ve committed and realize too late that they do not want to work in their field. In my view the worst situation is to realize you hate your major junior or senior year.<p>I’m not sure about solutions. I took a gap year and worked as a programmer. The gap year had a lot of benefits but maybe the biggest one was knowing that I could actually see myself as a programmer and that I’m competent at it. A gap year is a privileged option though. In general cheaper tuition and more involved guidance could work. Most majors should have an initial class that outlines the potential career options and the less than pretty parts of the job. I suppose that pushes the school into a more vocational role, but alas if you’re paying so damn much, getting a career out of it is pretty necessary.')