Item(by='frankfrankfrank', descendants=None, kids=None, score=None, time=1608730309, title=None, item_type='comment', url=None, parent=25515957, text='Diversity is mit actually great in and of itself by any objective measure. The Linux community that can’t get linked to be even close to a consumer level maturity is diversity, Apple’s Mac OS shows us what focus, consistency, unity, coordination, and in-group abstraction of generalizations produces … a far superior system, regardless of whether it is or is not overtaken later on by the diversity that will destroy it. Ironically, to some degree, Microsoft has been moving to far less diversity as it continues closing itself down and consolidating and integrating services closer.<p>Any reasonable, objective, and scientific person knows exactly that diversity is not even actually what people think diversity it, it’s actually distraction, disunity, disharmony, pollution, inefficiency. Now, diversification is another thing altogether that is a risk hedge that makes sense and produces well established risk benefits, but diversity is actually immensely risky. Diversity is white literally irrational inclusion of immense long term risks.<p>Just like adding a civilian to your military squad during war will only likely get everyone else also killed due to their incompatible diversity, so too will diversity destroy all other organizations and systems. It is quite literally the objective of diversity, to destroy, whether those engaged in diversity realize that is the objective of those advocating for it or not.<p>The ugly effects of diversity are even starting to really show their ugly impact in the USA now as the country that produced everything that we all have and use, including everything associated with this site and organization are starting to dissolve among the predicted strains that disunity from diversity introduces. And that was the objective of those who pushed the diversity narrative in roughly the 60s, a concepts that the “capitalist” types latched onto, because if meant being able to continue and extend their extraction of wealth and resources a bit longer as the lone was running out. It seems like we are possibly barreling through the last station before there is no more track on this diversity crazy train. We’ll see what happens when we run off the rails.')