Item(by='jl2718', descendants=None, kids=[25521398], score=None, time=1608735583, title=None, item_type='comment', url=None, parent=25509294, text='The unskilled labor concept was not often discussed in forums or in most of my interactions at Stanford, but when I went to Cal, I realized that the labor value theory foundations were a lot more important to the early supporters than I had thought. I learned about the origins of the movement from a UW student visiting Cal. Somebody may have given a talk there and it caught on.<p>Smart contracts seemed to me to be another sticking point that nearly killed the whole idea. Most people were looking for a better system of simple exchange, and smart contracts made that difficult. Now transactions became difficult to understand and fraught with error. Running a node meant trusting a fairly large code base you downloaded from an insecure Internet forum, and then let strangers run code on that. Before Script came into it, anybody could look at a shell script implementation and understand what was going on with all trusted components. For a long time it looked like Bitcoin would never release, and vulnerabilities in the early versions made everybody realize that they weren’t trusting a mathematical concept; they were trusting software written by some guy on the internet. Then there was the debate inside the smart contracts community about the halting problem and how it could be used to attack the network. This is probably practically solved with transaction costs alone, but I think it was a practical software engineering compromise do scripting without looping and backward jump instructions because they made the software much more complex and vulnerable to attack. Same with the block size, maybe even block time. This was all an experiment. By the time Vitalik started pushing for improvements, the Satoshi compromises had become canon. I spoke to him and he seemed to be in agreement with upgrading the protocol through miner consensus, but, by that point, an industry of rather unsophisticated mining operations had emerged, and they were not interested in changing anything. Briefly I lived with one of the biggest miners in the world, and he would ask questions and I would explain to him how transactions work etc. So Vitalik gave up on on-chain scripting and proposed an off-chain scripting scripting layer that would use a separate gas currency just for smart contracts with settlement on the Bitcoin blockchain. This was very important to distinguish itself from the rest of the already-defunct altcoins. But practically, I don’t know how it was supposed to happen. We have this now, but it’s been a long road. Is there any reason that Bitcoin doesn’t have Turing completeness, faster blocks, oracles, etc? Not really; but a fork would have been risk without reward, whereas a new token offers the ability to premine and speculate. One of the biggest learnings was how much speculation would dominate over anything non-financial, and how hard it would be to modify the Bitcoin experiment. Still, the use cases for smart contracts are very few, and Turing completeness itself is basically unnecessary. But to more directly address the point, Bitcoin has transaction fees already, and it would be simple to assume that a similar consensus on gas price would emerge and doesn’t need to be part of the protocol. To go further, the gas price itself doesn’t solve the problem of computational complexity because only the miner that wins the block actually gets the reward, while all others downstream are expected to verify it, but they have no incentive to do so, and frankly, today, most don’t. As an example, almost nobody boots up an eth node with verification from origin, and they would be greatly in the minority if they corrected a bug. Eth nodes boot to a trusted state handed to them. Most of the early eth discussions I was involved with implied doing this in snarks or some other provable computation in the initial discussions, but that never made it into eth. So no; that problem was never solved, although we are getting closer.')