Item(by='zachf', descendants=None, kids=[25584073], score=None, time=1609347897, title=None, item_type='comment', url=None, parent=25581701, text='Its a short and elegant proof set in pure theoretical general relativity (GR). The idea is that if there’s a sphere of space where if you try to emit light rays and the light rays don’t initially start separating, then they can’t start separating due to gravity, because in classical GR, gravity is always attractive. You can then show that this implies that inside that sphere, spacetime must end, basically because you can’t outrun light.<p>The proof is important because it was previously believed that black holes are not interesting because they require very special perfect conditions to create, like balancing a pencil on its tip is physically possible but requires perfect aim. But these aforementioned spheres are very common and easy to find so it turns out black holes are common too.<p>If you think (as almost every physicist does) that GR is approximately correct to describe reality, but needs fixes at very tiny lengths because of poorly understood quantum effects, the proof does not directly carry over. One immediate problem is that the proof assumes that energy densities are positive, implying that that gravity is universally attractive, which for quantum matter can never be always true for every quantum state (this is a consequence of Reeh-Schlieder, that every QFT contains states with negative energy density).<p>None of this invalidates Penrose’s work. Physicists have always used different physics to describe different scales. Newtonian physics is great to describe most physics on a human scale, but it’s “wrong” in the sense that GR supersedes it. Similarly GR is “wrong” but still approximately right for a ton of questions of cosmology. But if you fall into a black hole, once you wait long enough, we don’t know what will happen.<p>In string theory, there are objects that are black hole-like. It is generally believed that the singularity is “resolved” (not truly present) in string theory but the details are very tricky to work out. It still is true that geometry breaks down near the singularity and whats left is some stringy stuff, something very new and confusing.<p>Of course it might turn out that string theory does not describe our reality either...')