Item(by='larusso', descendants=None, kids=[25591258], score=None, time=1609404832, title=None, item_type='comment', url=None, parent=25587765, text='Every few years this argument pops again that flash is still not yet fully replaced. And then the same arguments from both sides start up that the one side either has a rose colored view on flash and the other side sees stuff to Linux centric at a time where windows was king. I programmed in flash for over 10 years. I started flash in school after building a few HTML pages with Java script. My plan was to become a web designer and I hated the fact that my pages looked utterly different on the same is with different browsers. So I testet flash and it was awesome for what I wanted. I started out with Actionscript 1 but never found the footing. A few years later I started with AS2 and thought myself OOP from books (I was ongoing media designer at the time). I had to make a decision at around 2008 if I want to go into the flash programming field as the company who hired me had a strict split between design and programming. So I went to become a programmer and learned AS3. I adopted Adobe Flex and this got my food in the door for the next 2 companies I worked for. It was 2013 when I started my last Flash based project and I switched over like a few other coworkers to iOS development (which I‘m also no longer doing). Flash for me was a Kickstarter for my carrier. That could be seen as a rose colored view. At the same time I remember all the struggle I had with the technology. The Textfield implementation was a mess. The timeline which is a very great concept for animators becomes completely useless and is actually in the way when your program flash for real. The later steps Adobe did to bring gpu and mobile support was beyond my reach as we had to keep the minimum flash player support (for us player 9 and later 19). I was happy to move on and try something else. I was able to bring my flash experience to cocos2d for iPhone. My company is using Unity now for development and I hate it with a passion. I never wanted to use it because it brings all the worst sides of flash development back. You are constantly in fear that the next version will break or remove a feature your project needs. I looked into web development with react in 2018. I even went to a advance workshop to learn how to use it with all its new features (hooks at the time). I really think react is good but the rest around it is a mess. Webpacker, Bable and npm&#x2F;yarn are so damn complicated. I wished a few of the traits flash had would come back. But I‘m also happy it is gone for good.')