Item(by='filoeleven', descendants=None, kids=None, score=None, time=1609955055, title=None, item_type='comment', url=None, parent=25655038, text='I’m not the parent poster, and I favor Long Sun currently (see my sibling post).  With that in mind, I think this is a great book that is not about generation ships exactly, but the Whorl (the ship) is deeply involved in the plot...eventually.<p>It starts out very small and slow: the entire first book takes place over the course of a single day and night.  What you get, though, is a living city complete with petty squabbles, political intrigue, complex relationships, all from the perspective of people who have no idea that they are living inside of a man-made ship.  They venerate the ancient technology they live with in a syncretistic religion that seems to have been created for that very purpose.<p>As the story progresses, themes of identity come into larger play, and you start to see more of just how far awry the ship’s journey has gone compared to the intentions of the builders.  Like most Wolfe books, things are progressively revealed that reshape your understanding of what came before—though you have to pay close attention to catch many of them.  You are never handed the exposition of “this is how the ship works, here’s all the cool tech behind it.”  Instead, you have to extrapolate it from what the characters know and are willing to reveal.<p>It’s not fast-paced or action-packed; it’s very character-driven.  I read that there are as many named characters as in War and Peace, over 500.  I didn’t like the beginning the first time I read it; things get more interesting once Silk decides to rob Blood on the first night, and I think that’s when I started to warm up to it.  So if you recall how far you got, and it was beyond that point, it may just not be to your liking.  I’d go so far as to say that if you don’t want to read about Silk frying up tomatoes and feeling bad about not offering them to a workmate, you could try skipping ahead a hundred pages to see if it catches your interest then.')