Item(by='briandear', descendants=None, kids=[25674103, 25673820, 25672641], score=None, time=1610035353, title=None, item_type='comment', url=None, parent=25672040, text='That just isn’t true. The “Autonomous Zones” lasted for weeks. Left wing protestors and rioters got away with literal murder, violence, looting.<p>How many people did the protestors at the capital harm? How much property was actually damaged? There are hundreds or more small businesses that were looted or burned to the ground during the left wing protests. How many small businesses or individuals were harmed by the Capitol protestors? There was a unarmed protestor that was shot and killed by a Capitol cop. Where is the outrage over an unarmed woman getting shot? Perhaps because she is a white Trump supporter she doesn’t matter as much as a black felon suspect getting shot by cops?<p>The hypocrisy is vivid but not surprising.<p>Left wing riots that destroy and loot small businesses that have nothing to do with the grievances being protested: “peaceful protest” supported by AOC and other Democrat politicians.<p>Trump protestors occupying the halls of the very institution they are protesting? Somehow they are seditious and horrible.<p>If these Capitol protesters were leftists protesting a Trump victory, the media and most people here would be singing a different tune.<p>And what’s frustrating to many people is how even a discussion of election fraud gets flagged and buried. Especially in a place like Hacker News. Has anyone actually looked at the statistical anomolies from the election? We’ve talked about voter machine integrity years ago on HN, but those concerns disappeared all the sudden. Concerns about electronic voting seem to evaporate when it benefits a candidate of ideological choice.<p>It’s weird. It’s like the entire HN community has no technical curiosity about any part of the clearly “interesting” election. It really feels conspiratorial how all facets of the tech industry have identically but independently have worked to defeat a political candidate.<p>So yes, I get the protests. When we’re being gaslit on “fair and secure” elections, but with our own eyes we see the appearance of exactly the opposite. People are going to get mad. One case in point: In Atlanta, during the presidential election night. All the media reported that counting was suspended for a “water pipe break” at State Farm Arena. A pipe break that never happened. Not a single work order. No repair. No maintenance record. Not a photo. Nothing. Zero evidence. Then all of the critical battlegrounds coincidentally stop counting votes at the same times? Florida didn’t stop. Neither did Texas. Or New York State. But the critical battlegrounds? Every one of them stopped the counts. Observers being kicked out. Observers being told to go home yet the counting continued. Trucks arriving in the middle of the night with extra votes..<p>This isn’t made up. This is all real. Was is fraud? Perhaps not. But are the coincidences that all happen to favor Biden compelling? Definitely.<p>And yet even discussing these weird anomalies that all favor Biden can get you in Facebook jail, suspended from Twitter, kicked off of YouTube.. downvoted on Hacker News. Even debating or questioning the Coronavirus orthodoxy can get you censored.<p>The world is fucked up and tech companies are a big part of the problem. I don’t think I have ever been more ashamed to be in this industry.')