Item(by='rayiner', descendants=None, kids=None, score=None, time=1610120132, title=None, item_type='comment', url=None, parent=25682709, text='Ibram Kendi is a professor. I’ve read some of his work and I think the basic point is sound, and something I’ve agreed with for years. My concern is the degree to which these ideas have percolated through the the media, etc., which causes well meaning people to think and talk about these issues in a way that doesn’t make sense to people. There is a thought process that causes a bunch of people involved in an article to green light use of “whiteness” as a pejorative when they would never do so to refer to another racial category. Most of the public would call it racist.<p>This happened with the vaccine prioritization at the CDC. I understand the arguments for it. Most Americans do not believe that life saving vaccines should be allocated based on peoples’ skin color. They would call that unambiguously racist. Thankfully for the CDC, the media barely covered it. Imagine what would have happened if the CDC had prioritized vaccines to white people? All of these people are operating with assumptions that are not universally shared by the public.<p>Ditto the riots this summer. Most people in the media have internalized this notion that whether violent rioting is okay depends on context. Most Americans do not see it that way. That distorted their coverage of what happened this summer, and burned credibility when it came time to cover the Capitol Hill riot.<p>I think Biden handled it okay, though I don’t think this was the time to inject the issue. But what if we’d had a President Elizabeth Warren? I shudder to think. Folks like her have really internalized this “they need to hear it for their own good” approach and are apt to use language that ordinary people aren’t familiar with. My in laws in Oregon don’t understand what any of this stuff means, and scolding them won’t help. They don’t feel “privileged” and you’ll only make them feel attacked. Which is fine if your intent is to bring about some sort of reckoning where the bad people are vanquished and the good prevail, but I don’t think that’s a great way to run a country.')