Item(by='ckozlowski', descendants=None, kids=None, score=None, time=1610653726, title=None, item_type='comment', url=None, parent=25770996, text='I’m not convinced by that Intel is doomed, especially by allegations that they can no longer design a performant chip, and especially that AMD has them finished.<p>Not that they’re entirely without merit; Intel faces challenges that, left resolved, will spell the end of the company. Just like any other firm that ignores problems.<p>Most of these arguments, especially the ones of “what are they going to do about AMD?” seem short-sighted. Intel has been here plenty of times before, facing down strong AMD competition only to come back and crush them a few product cycles later. Jim Keller can only come around so often. No, AMD’s issue is that they can never hold onto that lead through enough product cycles to really make a lasting dent in market share. It’s especially unfortunate for AMD right now, as supply constraints are choking what is its best performing product in years. Can’t really claw back a ton of market share when no one can get your chips.<p>It’s asked by the tech tubers and other observers why Intel continues to ship old Skylake variants. Process issues with 10nm are a factor here. But I suspect there’s a big one that no one’s really discussing.<p>And that’s the fallout from Spectre and Meltdown.<p>Keep in mind that the exploits in these flaws were found in products that were 10 years back at the time they were discovered. Each new chip isn’t a ground up design, but iterations on designs that stretch back years. I suspect, that the reason we haven’t seen truly new designs in over several product cycles is that Intel is having to redo large parts of their architecture that would have otherwise been carried forward in a normal setting.\nGamers and enthusiasts may not have seen much of an impact to their apps as a result of these; none of the microcode updates results in big FPS drops in any games that I am aware of. But there were notable enterprise workloads that did. It’s often overlooked that the consumer marketplace is just one part of the larger IT ecosystem, so a redesign there is a must.<p>The timing of this is horrible of course, as it comes right when their new process is failing. So double-whammy there. Fortunately, or unfortunately, worldwide lack of fab capacity I think is preventing their rivals from exploiting this as much as they could.\nAs for RISC, I think that is an entirely different threat, and to me, far more threatening and plausible. Intel saw this and tried to get into mobile chips, But I feel x86 is intrinsically at a disadvantage there.<p>I’m interested to see where Intel will be at once they have a new design ready to go. We’ve been here before. Pentium 4 ended up scaling far better than the Athlon XP did, and Core 2 and Nehalem utterly crushed AMD’s offerings when they were launched after a few years of AMD on top. There’s good reason to believe they can do so again, and a big reason why we haven’t seen an attempt is because they’re continuing to undo their mistakes of the past. We’ll have to see if they can.<p>My two cents.<p>(Disclaimer: Not a fanboy, I’m writing this on my AMD 3700X. =P )')