Item(by='bavent', descendants=None, kids=None, score=None, time=1611029233, title=None, item_type='comment', url=None, parent=25827673, text='The first one I’m sure how it’s well known, considering it has 9 retweets. Yes, it should be taken town, but I can see how it might be a little low on Twitter’s priority list considering he’s just some random Scottish dude, not really an “influencer” or anything.<p>The second one was definitely bad taste, and I’m surprised it didn’t get taken down considering she’s at least famous, but I don’t think that’s actually calling for him to be beheaded, I think it’s a really shitty attempt at being an art piece.<p>But neither of these are really plotting armed insurrection against a democratically elected government, are they? Not really as vile as spreading word that liberals are baby rapers and calling for their death. It’s like gerrymandering: sure, technically both parties do it, but I only ever here calls to end it from one party, whereas the other does all it can to continue the process, and the scale at which republicans do it is much, much greater.<p>Dylann Roof, James Alex Fields, Cesar Sayoc, Patrick Crusius. Those are very few of the many, many right wing terrorists this country has produced recently - just the ones I could name off the top of my head. The only examples of left wing terrorist attacks I could find were the SDS and SLA from half a century ago. We don’t have a problem with left wing terrorism. Left wing groups aren’t infiltrating police departments. Sure, there are a few bad actors on the left. But it’s several orders of magnitude different than the right and to say “well both sides do it” is basically just willful ignorance at this point.<p>Most leftists I interact with want basic healthcare to be covered by tax dollars, living wages, a path to citizenship for immigrants, equal rights, etc. I’ve encountered very few outside of very small little cliques who were actually interested in taking rights away from people or in killing anyone. I was in the WTO protests in Seattle, I have lived in Portland for many years, and now I live in a really red area. The right wingers I encounter(ed, pre-covid) were happy to tell me how they think illegals should be shot, how liberals aren’t really people, how all democrats are pedophiles, how they don’t want (insert minority) living in this community because they’re dirty&#x2F;criminals&#x2F;whatever, how they carry a gun at all times in case a black person comes up on them. On and on. Waiting to have a chance to kill a fellow American. This is not something I see from both sides. These are just regular people, not extreme radicals part of some splinter group. This is the run-of-the-mill right wing.')