Item(by='openasocket', descendants=None, kids=[25839017], score=None, time=1611086293, title=None, item_type='comment', url=None, parent=25835376, text='I strongly disagree with your assessment that, without Western funding for the rebels the government forces would have resumed control within a couple years, for a variety of reasons. The rebels made significant territorial gains before Western involvement, and the large number of factions that emerged is a solid demonstration that Assad was unable to control the population. The usage of artillery, air strikes, and chemical attacks on civilian targets greatly strengthened the resolve of the rebels. Repeatedly refusing to take actions to improve the humanitarian situation, along with draconian treatment of rebels and suspected rebels, ensured that the population would not yield to government forces without a long and protracted fight.<p>It should be noted the large degree of foreign involvement in this war. You&#x27;ve got Hezbollah and Iranian-backed militia groups working alongside the Syria government forces. Turkey, Saudi Arabia, and Qatar provided bases, training, and equipment to the free Syrian army. Turkey has even mounted offensives into northeast Syria. There&#x27;s Kurdish forces, some funded by Kurdish nationalist elements. There&#x27;s jihadist groups such as the al Nusra front and ISIL which took advantage of the power vacuum to grow in power and influence. Foreign fighters from throughout the middle east (and throughout the world) flocked to the region to join various factions. Russia has deployed troops to assist the Syrian government and is regularly striking Syrian opposition targets. And, of course, funding and training from several Western nations. None of the above was at the behest of the US, these are actions taken by different countries and groups in service of their own foreign policy goals and ideologies. It seems odd to place the blame squarely at the feet of the US when so many competing interests were involved, especially when others intervened significantly more.<p>And things changed significantly with the emergence of ISIL, their invasion of Iraq, and numerous terrorist attacks around the world. The US was absolutely correct in providing support to Iraq and building a coalition to stop their territorial gains and mount a counter offensive. I think expecting the US to remain neutral in such a conflict is unreasonable. It was necessary to push them back into Syria, and to take steps to make sure they could not regain ground in western Syria. And while the Syrian and Russian governments might complain about this, the fact is that the region is far outside of their area of control.<p>I think that blaming everything on the US belittles the decisions and actions or local groups, and groups around the world.')