Item(by='jelliclesfarm', descendants=None, kids=None, score=None, time=1611101932, title=None, item_type='comment', url=None, parent=25840639, text='i keep saying this everywhere i go and anytime i get an opportunity to communicate this. because. urgency. california has basically bankrupted the state&#x27;s commons and natural resources for the claim to fame of being the biggest ag economy in the usa.<p>california has a $45 billion ag income. per year. and a lot of it comes from what we export. while it might seem like its almonds and pistachios that are exported..and we are proud here in ca that we are the salad bowl of america and have acres and acres of strawberry fields..the reality is that it all comes at a cost. we were exporting our water. during our hardest cyclical droughts. its not like it wasnt expected. california is a desert afterall. and everything we grow is because we steal water from the rio grande. but the colorado river wont be able to sustain this sham game and ponzi scheme for long. and yes, the taxbase PAY to for the privilege of being scalped by ca politicians at sacramento.<p>its shameful and the politicians have blatantly lied and bankrolled their own campaigns by destroying california and our commons.<p>but wait! there is more! between fracking and our disappearing aquifers, its not just subsidence that will be the nail on ca&#x27;s natural resources coffins..but there is also the danger of salt water intrusion on the other side in the ca coast. monterrey and salinas valley will soon..and this will be less than a century..maybe 50-60 years..have salt water intrusion making it impossible to cultivate the lettuce or strawberries or the celeries and brassicas.<p>today...around san juan bautista and surrounding areas, there is no water. the bores keep drilling deeper and deeper looking for water. and noone wants to talk about it. they just keep going at it as though resources dont have to be renewed and they do not want to account for the irreversible loss of top soil and all the blow back of fossil fueled ag. never mind, the human cost of it where poorly paid undocumented labour shoulders the whole unsubsidised burden which is eventually borne by the tax payers.<p>i hope the tax payers will one day realise that their high taxes are not going to feed californians or be the net for the underpaid immigrant labour or actually produce food. it is going to export cheap almonds and other goods of conspicous consumption to the rest of the world while we burn through non renewable resources and heading towards the unsolvable problem zone.<p>today, dairy farms in ca are bankrupt or have almost disappeared. the alfafa we grow is more profitable when its sent to china (who have themselves depleted their aquifers or poisoned them with industrial toxins) because they cannot grow fodder for the dairy their new middle class wants...and all those empty shipping containers can carry ca alfafa. but it costs more to transport fodder and forage to dairy farms in ca itself. supply chain logistics are a whole another level of mind fuckery.')