Item(by='wolfgang42', descendants=None, kids=None, score=None, time=1611644092, title=None, item_type='comment', url=None, parent=25912488, text='I’m doing my best not to be insulted by your description of my conjecture as “cartoonish.” Maybe one of us has misunderstood the other, but it seems to me that I’ve also proposed a mechanism that involves the attacker having limited understanding.<p>From the blog post, it sounds like the bit where they were working in the dark was getting things to run on a production database, but the SQL command to give them moderator privileges was prepared ahead of time (which makes sense, they had a local site set up and could prepare and test that part at their leisure). It seems very unlikely to me that they would have spent so much effort on getting that particular SQL to run for no reason, so the moderator privilege in particular probably had some appeal to them from a technical perspective. The main permission I can think of that you get as a mod is the ability to edit posts. It seems unlikely that an attack this sophisticated would be just for vandalism, so I consider the profit motive instead. “For sale: Access to Stack Exchange internal infrastructure. As proof, ask me to edit any post on Stack Overflow.”<p>What tripped them up was not a <i>technical</i> tripwire, but rather how intimate the SE community is with their moderators. This wouldn’t be obvious from the codebase; only if you’d spent some time on the meta sites would you be aware of the culture surrounding SE mods. On, say, Facebook, getting a global moderator bit isn’t something that a big chunk of the user base would have name recognition for. My stereotype is that someone who’s trying to break in to infrastructure (and not doing responsible disclosure) probably isn’t also volunteering in the review queues, and so wouldn’t realize what a risk this would be.<p>Of course this is all conjecture and we’ll never know for certain without tracking down the attacker and asking them, but I’d like to think I’ve constructed a reasonable scenario that takes all of the known facts and a probable motive and comes up with a plausible explanation for what was (in hindsight, at least) a fairly significant blunder.')