Item(by='danaliv', descendants=None, kids=[25982195], score=None, time=1612077928, title=None, item_type='comment', url=None, parent=25974891, text='I don’t know if I’m reading this correctly, but it comes across to me at least as defensive, and is probably not going to encourage people who are already feeling vulnerable to come forward with specific evidence. I’m also not sure you’ve fully understood the complaint. I can’t speak for stonecraftwolf of course, so I can’t be sure about that. I suspect my own experience is similar though, because I’m hearing echoes of an experience I have here too.<p>The issue that I’ve experienced here isn’t, strictly speaking, a failure of moderation. It’s more an occasional failure of culture. For the most part discussions go very well here, and I see the hard work you do to make that happen. In fact if someone were to ask me to name the best and hardest-working moderators on the internet, you would come to mind first. There are, however, some topics where the tone of the whole discussion—not individual posts, but whole discussions—is toxic to the point where I have to take a HN breather. If you’d like, I can send you examples of these as I see them in the future.<p>It’s difficult to address this in a framework where the unit of moderation is an individual comment. A more significant challenge, and one that I think isn’t talked about nearly enough, is that the kind of toxicity I sometimes see here is of a subtle (but no less poisonous) sort. I suspect, in fact, that recognition of it might be difficult unless you’ve become attuned to it as a survival mechanism after experiencing it over and over throughout one’s life. I’m not necessarily saying “there’s no way for you to see it unless you already know it,” which would be tricky indeed—but I’m not ruling out the possibility either. In any case my point is that there is a holistic view that gets lost when we dive into the weeds of individual comments, and in my experience at least, the hurt happens at that holistic level.<p>I hope this is helpful, and does not feel accusatory; I have nothing to accuse you of, and I very much appreciate being able to work these issues out in good faith. Thanks again for all the hard work you do.')