Item(by='vlovich123', descendants=None, kids=[25978982, 25976956, 25977361], score=None, time=1612073881, title=None, item_type='comment', url=None, parent=25975196, text='Do you think that creating such laws magically solves the problem? You don’t think people will just adapt to accomplish their goals within the technicality of the law? Cyberbullying was a huge problem when I was growing up and laws were constantly being passed. Did cyberbullying somehow become less prevalent or their criminals easier to punish? It seems like the problem has only gotten worse.<p>The reason is one of organization. Gab&#x2F;Parler was intentionally trying to organize white supremacists. That is the entire goal and motivating raison d’etre. Cyberbullying like this is not some shared idealogy but a personal vendetta. As such it’s impossible to solve with the legal system or technology - at best you get a punishment effect a small fraction of the time for such a small expense that punishment is reserved for extreme cases that devolve to real-world altercations as an add-on multiplier as it takes a significant amount of time and effort to convince authorities whose the party telling the truth. Slander and libel are already things but people can’t seem to acknowledge that you can’t legislate away the fundamental problem that communication is now cheaper and more widespread than ever. Imagine if you could anonymously distribute pamphlets in multiple cities with minimal effort with very difficult ways to trace it back to you. The problem here is people fail to recognize that there’s nothing technology can do to solve a fundamental human failure mode here. People get pissed off at each other, and one party starts slandering the other. The legislation needs to focus on making it easier to deanonymize. But such legislation is actually bad for the internet and doomed to fail anyway since technology makes it easier than ever in ever increasing ways. From a social well-being perspective, anonymity is critically important for those who legitimately speak truth to power (eg sources for reporters).')