Item(by='quantgenius', descendants=None, kids=[25974518, 25974832, 25975281], score=None, time=1612051242, title=None, item_type='comment', url=None, parent=25973949, text='There is a lot of context missing in articles written like this, which mostly parrot the talking points of elements of the Indian media which support the Congress Party.<p>India is not starting at the same place as Western democracies. You know about the scare tactics by some fringe right wing US politicians talking about how people want Sharia in the US. This is reality in India. There is a different set of civil laws depending on your religion. If you are a Muslim man, you can marry up to 4 women without the consent of any existing women you are married to. You can divorce a woman simply by saying the word &quot;Talaq&quot; 3 times etc. This was supposedly done because people should have the freedom to do whatever they wanted to do. In reality it basically gave Muslim preachers, who in offered to deliver banks of votes, enormous power and allowed them to subjugate women.<p>The same people calling the current government Hindu Nationalists created this state of affairs when they were in power. The Supreme Court tried to fix this state of affairs. Google the Shah Bano case in India. And old woman was divorced by a man who already had four wives who wanted to marry a younger wife. Under the civil laws governing Muslims based on Sharia, after having lived her whole life as a middle class woman she was left completely destitute because she was owed essentially no alimony and had no rights to any property. The Supreme Court weighed in and reversed this, but on statutory not constitutional grounds. The Congress (a political party) government called a special session of Parliament to pass a law that reversed this because the Muslim preachers who hated this insisted that they do so or they would not deliver the votes they would otherwise deliver. These are literally the same set of characters who are now complaining about the BJP government.<p>The BJP is slowly reversing this and creating a situation where people are treated as Indians, not Hindus or Muslims. So long as you believe female Muslims and those Muslims who want to live in the 21st century count, the majority of Muslims support this and support the current BJP government. Of course, the Muslim preachers and others who would prefer to have a medieval set of laws that allow them to exercise power hate this.<p>Next time you read about the Hindu Nationalist government in India subjugating Muslims, remember the majority of Muslims have voted for this government twice in a free and fair election with secret ballots. Further, this government has brought droves of female Muslims who were actually subjugated and never previously voted out of fear, to the polls. Why would a group supposedly being subjugated vote for their oppressors and against the people supposedly wanting to free them of the oppression? There is definitely a noisy minority that hates what this government is doing because it takes power away from them.')